apps/docs/content/guides/platform/manage-your-usage/disk-size.mdx, before:

---
id: 'manage-usage-disk-size'
title: 'Manage Disk size usage'
---

## What you are charged for
Each Supabase project has a dedicated [disk](/docs/guides/platform/compute-and-disk#disk). You are charged for the provisioned disk size.

<Admonition type="note">
  Disk size is not relevant for the Free Plan. Instead Free Plan customers are limited by [Database size](/docs/guides/platform/database-size).
</Admonition>

## How charges are calculated
Disk size is charged by Gigabyte-Hours (GB-Hrs). 1 GB-Hrs represents 1 GB being provisioned for 1 hour.
For example, having 10 GB provisioned for 5 hours results in 50 GB-Hrs (10 GB × 5 hours).

### Disk size usage on your invoice
Disk size usage is shown as "Disk Size GB-Hrs" on your invoice.

## Pricing
Pricing depends on the [disk type](/docs/guides/platform/compute-and-disk#disk-types), with type gp3 being the default.

### General purpose disks (gp3)

1 GB-Hrs is $0.000171 ($0.125 per GB per month).
Each project gets provisioned with an 8 GB disk for free. You are only charged for the disk size exceeding these 8 GB.

| Plan       | Included Disk Size | Over-Usage per GB per month | Over-Usage per GB-Hrs |
|------------|--------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------|
| Pro        | 8 GB               | $0.125                      | $0.000171             |
| Team       | 8 GB               | $0.125                      | $0.000171             |
| Enterprise | Custom             | Custom                      | Custom                |

### High performance disks (io2)
1 GB-Hrs is $0.000267 ($0.195 per GB per month).
Unlike general purpose disks, high performance disks are billed from the first byte of provisioned disk.

| Plan       | Included Disk size | Usage per GB per month | Usage per GB-Hrs |
|------------|--------------------|------------------------|------------------|
| Pro        | 0 GB               | $0.195                 | $0.000267        |
| Team       | 0 GB               | $0.195                 | $0.000267        |
| Enterprise | Custom             | Custom                 | Custom           |

## Billing examples
### Gp3
Project 1 and 2 don't exceed the included disk size, so no charges for Disk size apply. Project 3 exceeds the included disk size by 42 GB, incurring charges for this additional usage.

| Line Item                     | Units     | Costs      |
|-------------------------------|-----------|------------|
| Pro Plan                      | 1         | $25        |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 1 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 1           | 8 GB      | $0         |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 2 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 2           | 8 GB      | $0         |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 3 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 3           | 50 GB     | $5.25      |
|                               |           |            |
| **Subtotal**                  |           | **$50.25** |
| Compute Credits               |           | -$10       |
| **Total**                     |           | **$40.25** |

### Io2
This disk type is billed from the first byte of provisioned disk, meaning for 66 GB across all projects.

| Line Item                     | Units     | Costs      |
|-------------------------------|-----------|------------|
| Pro Plan                      | 1         | $25        |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 1 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 1           | 8 GB      | $1.56      |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 2 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 2           | 8 GB      | $1.56      |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 3 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 3           | 50 GB     | $9.75      |
|                               |           |            |
| **Subtotal**                  |           | **$67.87** |
| Compute Credits               |           | -$10       |
| **Total**                     |           | **$57.87** |

## View Disk size usage
You can view Disk size usage on the [organization's usage page](https://supabase.com/dashboard/org/_/usage). The page shows the usage of all projects by default. To view the usage for a specific project, select it from the dropdown.
<Image
  alt="Usage page navigation bar"
  src={{
    light: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-navbar--light.png',
    dark: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-navbar--dark.png',
  }}
  zoomable
/>

In the Disk size section, you can see how much disk size your projects have provisioned.
<Image
  alt="Usage page Disk Size section"
  src={{
    light: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-disk-size--light.png',
    dark: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-disk-size--dark.png',
  }}
  zoomable
/>

### Disk size distribution
To see how your disk usage is distributed across Database, WAL, and System categories, refer to [Disk size distribution](/docs/guides/platform/database-size#disk-size-distribution).

## Reduce Disk size
To see how you can downsize your disk, refer to [Reducing disk size](/docs/guides/platform/database-size#reducing-disk-size)

Commit message:

Review feedback regarding Read Replicas

apps/docs/content/guides/platform/manage-your-usage/disk-size.mdx, after:

---
id: 'manage-usage-disk-size'
title: 'Manage Disk size usage'
---

## What you are charged for
Each database has a dedicated [disk](/docs/guides/platform/compute-and-disk#disk). You are charged for the provisioned disk size.

<Admonition type="note">
  Disk size is not relevant for the Free Plan. Instead Free Plan customers are limited by [Database size](/docs/guides/platform/database-size).
</Admonition>

## How charges are calculated
Disk size is charged by Gigabyte-Hours (GB-Hrs). 1 GB-Hrs represents 1 GB being provisioned for 1 hour.
For example, having 10 GB provisioned for 5 hours results in 50 GB-Hrs (10 GB × 5 hours).

### Disk size usage on your invoice
Disk size usage is shown as "Disk Size GB-Hrs" on your invoice.

## Pricing
Pricing depends on the [disk type](/docs/guides/platform/compute-and-disk#disk-types), with type gp3 being the default.

### General purpose disks (gp3)

1 GB-Hrs is $0.000171 ($0.125 per GB per month). The primary database of your project gets provisioned with an 8 GB disk. You are only charged for provisioned disk size exceeding these 8 GB.

| Plan       | Included Disk Size | Over-Usage per GB per month | Over-Usage per GB-Hrs |
|------------|--------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------|
| Pro        | 8 GB               | $0.125                      | $0.000171             |
| Team       | 8 GB               | $0.125                      | $0.000171             |
| Enterprise | Custom             | Custom                      | Custom                |

<Admonition type="note">
  Launching a Read Replica creates an additional database with its own dedicated disk. You are charged from the first byte of provisioned disk for the Read Replica. Refer to [Manage Read Replica usage](/docs/guides/platform/manage-your-usage/read-replicas) for details on billing.
</Admonition>

### High performance disks (io2)
1 GB-Hrs is $0.000267 ($0.195 per GB per month).
Unlike general purpose disks, high performance disks are billed from the first byte of provisioned disk.

| Plan       | Included Disk size | Usage per GB per month | Usage per GB-Hrs |
|------------|--------------------|------------------------|------------------|
| Pro        | 0 GB               | $0.195                 | $0.000267        |
| Team       | 0 GB               | $0.195                 | $0.000267        |
| Enterprise | Custom             | Custom                 | Custom           |

## Billing examples
### Gp3
Project 1 and 2 don't exceed the included disk size, so no charges for Disk size apply. Project 3 exceeds the included disk size by 42 GB, incurring charges for this additional usage.

| Line Item                     | Units     | Costs      |
|-------------------------------|-----------|------------|
| Pro Plan                      | 1         | $25        |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 1 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 1           | 8 GB      | $0         |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 2 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 2           | 8 GB      | $0         |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 3 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 3           | 50 GB     | $5.25      |
|                               |           |            |
| **Subtotal**                  |           | **$50.25** |
| Compute Credits               |           | -$10       |
| **Total**                     |           | **$40.25** |

### Io2
This disk type is billed from the first byte of provisioned disk, meaning for 66 GB across all projects.

| Line Item                     | Units     | Costs      |
|-------------------------------|-----------|------------|
| Pro Plan                      | 1         | $25        |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 1 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 1           | 8 GB      | $1.56      |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 2 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 2           | 8 GB      | $1.56      |
|                               |           |            |
| Compute Hours Micro Project 3 | 744 hours | $10        |
| Disk Size Project 3           | 50 GB     | $9.75      |
|                               |           |            |
| **Subtotal**                  |           | **$67.87** |
| Compute Credits               |           | -$10       |
| **Total**                     |           | **$57.87** |

## View Disk size usage
You can view Disk size usage on the [organization's usage page](https://supabase.com/dashboard/org/_/usage). The page shows the usage of all projects by default. To view the usage for a specific project, select it from the dropdown.
<Image
  alt="Usage page navigation bar"
  src={{
    light: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-navbar--light.png',
    dark: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-navbar--dark.png',
  }}
  zoomable
/>

In the Disk size section, you can see how much disk size your projects have provisioned.
<Image
  alt="Usage page Disk Size section"
  src={{
    light: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-disk-size--light.png',
    dark: '/docs/img/guides/platform/usage-disk-size--dark.png',
  }}
  zoomable
/>

### Disk size distribution
To see how your disk usage is distributed across Database, WAL, and System categories, refer to [Disk size distribution](/docs/guides/platform/database-size#disk-size-distribution).

## Reduce Disk size
To see how you can downsize your disk, refer to [Reducing disk size](/docs/guides/platform/database-size#reducing-disk-size)
